README.md, before:

# OpenFace • [ ![Build Status] [travis-image] ] [travis] [ ![Release] [release-image] ] [releases] [ ![License] [license-image] ] [license] [ ![Gitter] [gitter-image] ] [gitter]

*Free and open source face recognition with
deep neural networks.*


[travis-image]: https://travis-ci.org/cmusatyalab/openface.png?branch=master
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/cmusatyalab/openface

[release-image]: http://img.shields.io/badge/release-0.2.1-blue.svg?style=flat
[releases]: https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/releases

[license-image]: http://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2-blue.svg?style=flat
[license]: LICENSE

[gitter-image]: https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg
[gitter]: https://gitter.im/cmusatyalab/openface

---

+ Website: http://cmusatyalab.github.io/openface/
+ [API Documentation](http://openface-api.readthedocs.org/en/latest/index.html)
+ Join the
  [cmu-openface group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cmu-openface)
  or the
  [gitter chat](https://gitter.im/cmusatyalab/openface)
  for discussions and installation issues.
+ Development discussions and bugs reports are on the
  [issue tracker](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/issues).

---

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF)
under grant number CNS-1518865.  Additional support
was provided by the Intel Corporation, Google, Vodafone, NVIDIA, and the
Conklin Kistler family fund.  Any opinions, findings, conclusions or
recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors
and should not be attributed to their employers or funding sources.

# What's in this repository?
+ [batch-represent](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/batch-represent): Generate representations from
  a batch of images. [Example directory structure.](https://gist.github.com/bamos/f03037f5df7e05ad0cc8)
+ [demos/web](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/demos/web): Real-time web demo.
+ [demos/compare.py](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/demos/compare.py): Demo to compare two images.
+ [demos/vis-outputs.lua](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/demos/vis-outputs.lua): Demo to
  visualize the network's outputs.
+ [demos/classifier.py](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/demos/classifier.py): Demo to train and use classifiers.
+ [evaluation](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/blob/master/evaluation): LFW accuracy evaluation scripts.
+ [openface](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/openface): Python library code.
+ [models](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/models): Model directory for openface and 3rd party libraries.
+ [tests](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/tests): Tests for scripts and library code, including neural network training.
+ [training](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/training): Scripts to train new OpenFace neural network models.
+ [util](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/util): Utility scripts.

# Citations

The following is a [BibTeX](http://www.bibtex.org/)
and plaintext reference
for the OpenFace GitHub repository.
The reference may change in the future.
The BibTeX entry requires the `url` LaTeX package.

```
@misc{amos2016openface,
    title        = {{OpenFace: Face Recognition with Deep Neural Networks}},
    author       = {Amos, Brandon and Ludwiczuk, Bartosz and Harkes, Jan and
                    Pillai, Padmanabhan and Elgazzar, Khalid and Satyanarayanan, Mahadev},
    howpublished = {\url{http://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface}},
    note         = {Accessed: 2016-01-11}
}

Brandon Amos, Bartosz Ludwiczuk, Jan Harkes, Padmanabhan Pillai,
Khalid Elgazzar, and Mahadev Satyanarayanan.
OpenFace: Face Recognition with Deep Neural Networks.
http://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface.
Accessed: 2016-01-11
```

# Licensing
Unless otherwise stated, the source code and trained Torch and Python
model files are copyright Carnegie Mellon University and licensed
under the [Apache 2.0 License](./LICENSE).
Portions from the following third party sources have
been modified and are included in this repository.
These portions are noted in the source files and are
copyright their respective authors with
the licenses listed.

Project | Modified | License
---|---|---|
[Atcold/torch-TripletEmbedding](https://github.com/Atcold/torch-TripletEmbedding) | No | MIT
[facebook/fbnn](https://github.com/facebook/fbnn) | Yes | BSD

Commit message:

Update citation to our tech report.

README.md, after:

# OpenFace • [ ![Build Status] [travis-image] ] [travis] [ ![Release] [release-image] ] [releases] [ ![License] [license-image] ] [license] [ ![Gitter] [gitter-image] ] [gitter]

*Free and open source face recognition with
deep neural networks.*


[travis-image]: https://travis-ci.org/cmusatyalab/openface.png?branch=master
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/cmusatyalab/openface

[release-image]: http://img.shields.io/badge/release-0.2.1-blue.svg?style=flat
[releases]: https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/releases

[license-image]: http://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2-blue.svg?style=flat
[license]: LICENSE

[gitter-image]: https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg
[gitter]: https://gitter.im/cmusatyalab/openface

---

+ Website: http://cmusatyalab.github.io/openface/
+ [API Documentation](http://openface-api.readthedocs.org/en/latest/index.html)
+ Join the
  [cmu-openface group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cmu-openface)
  or the
  [gitter chat](https://gitter.im/cmusatyalab/openface)
  for discussions and installation issues.
+ Development discussions and bugs reports are on the
  [issue tracker](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/issues).

---

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF)
under grant number CNS-1518865.  Additional support
was provided by the Intel Corporation, Google, Vodafone, NVIDIA, and the
Conklin Kistler family fund.  Any opinions, findings, conclusions or
recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors
and should not be attributed to their employers or funding sources.

# What's in this repository?
+ [batch-represent](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/batch-represent): Generate representations from
  a batch of images. [Example directory structure.](https://gist.github.com/bamos/f03037f5df7e05ad0cc8)
+ [demos/web](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/demos/web): Real-time web demo.
+ [demos/compare.py](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/demos/compare.py): Demo to compare two images.
+ [demos/vis-outputs.lua](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/demos/vis-outputs.lua): Demo to
  visualize the network's outputs.
+ [demos/classifier.py](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/demos/classifier.py): Demo to train and use classifiers.
+ [evaluation](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/blob/master/evaluation): LFW accuracy evaluation scripts.
+ [openface](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/openface): Python library code.
+ [models](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/models): Model directory for openface and 3rd party libraries.
+ [tests](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/tests): Tests for scripts and library code, including neural network training.
+ [training](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/training): Scripts to train new OpenFace neural network models.
+ [util](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/openface/tree/master/util): Utility scripts.

# Citations

Please cite OpenFace in your publications if it helps your research.
The following is a [BibTeX](http://www.bibtex.org/) and plaintext reference for our
[OpenFace tech report](http://reports-archive.adm.cs.cmu.edu/anon/anon/2016/CMU-CS-16-118.pdf).

```
@techreport{amos2016openface,
  title={OpenFace: A general-purpose face recognition
    library with mobile applications},
  author={Amos, Brandon and Bartosz Ludwiczuk and Satyanarayanan, Mahadev},
  year={2016},
  institution={CMU-CS-16-118, CMU School of Computer Science},
}

B. Amos, B. Ludwiczuk, M. Satyanarayanan,
"Openface: A general-purpose face recognition library with mobile applications,"
CMU-CS-16-118, CMU School of Computer Science, Tech. Rep., 2016.
```

# Licensing
Unless otherwise stated, the source code and trained Torch and Python
model files are copyright Carnegie Mellon University and licensed
under the [Apache 2.0 License](./LICENSE).
Portions from the following third party sources have
been modified and are included in this repository.
These portions are noted in the source files and are
copyright their respective authors with
the licenses listed.

Project | Modified | License
---|---|---|
[Atcold/torch-TripletEmbedding](https://github.com/Atcold/torch-TripletEmbedding) | No | MIT
[facebook/fbnn](https://github.com/facebook/fbnn) | Yes | BSD
